# Go REST API with Docker, SQLite, Gin

This is a simple REST API project built in Go, utilizing Docker, SQLite, and Gin, to manage a to-do list with full CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) functionality.

## Prerequisites

Before running this project, you'll need to have Docker Compose installed on your system.

## Project Structure

```css
go-rest-api/
├─ config/
├─ db/
├─ handler/
├─ docs/
├─ router/
├─ schemas/
├─ vendor/
├─ docker-compose.yml
├─ Dockerfile
├─ go.mod
├─ go.sum
├─ LICENSE
├─ main.go
├─ makefile
├─ request-insomnia.json

```

- **config/**: Contains configuration files or settings for your Go application.

- **db/**: Manages the database, including database connection and queries.

- **handler/**: Handles incoming HTTP requests and responses. This is where you define the request handlers for your API.

- **docs/**: This directory typically contains documentation files or assets related to your project. In this context, it might include documentation on API usage.

- **router/**: Defines the routing for your API, specifying which endpoints correspond to which request handlers.

- **schemas/**: Houses data schemas or models that represent the structure of your data. These schemas are often used to validate incoming data.

- **vendor/**: It may contain third-party libraries or dependencies used in your project. This is sometimes generated by dependency management tools like `go mod`.

- **docker-compose.yml**: A Docker Compose configuration file that describes how your application and any associated services, like databases, should be orchestrated in containers.

- **Dockerfile**: This file defines the instructions for building a Docker image for your Go application.

- **go.mod**: This is a Go module file that defines the dependencies and their versions used in your project.

- **go.sum**: The go.sum file is used to ensure reproducible builds by providing a checksum of the specific versions of dependencies used in your project.

- **LICENSE**: The license file for your project, which specifies the terms and conditions under which others can use, modify, and distribute your code.

- **main.go**: The main entry point of your Go application, where your application is started.

- **makefile**: A makefile for automating various tasks in your project, such as building, testing, or running the application.

- **request-insomnia.json**: An Insomnia-specific file containing API request definitions for testing and documentation purposes.

This structure helps organize your Go REST API project into various components, making it easier to maintain, test, and deploy. It's a good practice to keep your codebase organized and well-documented for easier collaboration and future development.

## Running the Project

To run the project:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.

2. Open your terminal and navigate to the project's root directory:

   ```bash
   cd go-rest-api
   ```

3. Run the following command to start the application and SQLite database using Docker Compose:

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

   This will build the Docker image, create necessary containers, and start the application.

4. The API documentation is available at `http://localhost:8080/swagger/index.html`. You can access it in your web browser.

5. Use the included Insomnia requests file (`insomnia_requests.json`) to test the API endpoints. Import the requests into Insomnia for testing.

## Documentation

The Swagger documentation provides detailed information about the available API endpoints and their usage. You can access it at `http://localhost:8080/swagger/index.html` once the application is running.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contributing

If you wish to contribute to this project or report any issues, please create a pull request or open an issue on the project's GitHub repository.

Enjoy using this simple Go REST API with Docker, SQLite, and Gin for managing your to-do list!
